The original purpose of word prediction software was to help people with physical disabilities increase their typing speed,[2]
as well as to help them decrease the number of keystrokes needed in order to complete a word or a sentence.[3] 
The need to increase speed is noted by the fact that people who use speech-generating devices generally produce speech
at a rate that is less than 10% as fast as people who use oral speech.[4] But the function is also very useful for anybody who writes text,
particularly people–such as medical doctors–who frequently use long, hard-to-spell terminology that may be technical or medical in nature.

Autocomplete or word completion works so that when the writer writes the first letter or letters of a word, the program predicts one 
or more possible words as choices. If the word he intends to write is included in the list he can select it, for example by using the number keys. 
If the word that the user wants is not predicted, the writer must enter the next letter of the word. At this time, the word choice(s) 
is altered so that the words provided begin with the same letters as those that have been selected. When the word that the user wants appears 
it is selected, and the word is inserted into the text. In another form of word prediction, words most likely to follow the just written 
one are predicted, based on recent word pairs used. Word prediction uses language modeling, 
where within a set vocabulary the words are most likely to occur are calculated. Along with language modeling, basic word prediction on AAC 
devices is often coupled with a frecency model, where words the AAC user has used recently and frequently are more likely to be predicted.
Word prediction software often also allows the user to enter their own words into the word prediction dictionaries either directly, or by 
"learning" words that have been written.Some search returns related to genitals or other vulgar terms are often omitted from autocompletion 
technologies, as are morbid terms.   